adding a task on obtaining a DOI for your code release (#73)
EVERSE-ResearchSoftware/RSQKit: pages/your_tasks/zenodo_doi.md

---
title: Adding a DOI in your code releases with Zenodo
search_exclude: true
description: Covers how to obtain a DOI via Zenodo for your code releases 

> contributors: ["Shoaib Sufi"] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contributors: ["Shoaib Sufi", "Daniel Garijo"] 
```
if reviewers are contribs, these should be acknowledged too no?

page_id: zenodo_doi
related_pages: []
---
## How can I get a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for my code release?

### Description 

> Obtaining a DOI (a type of persistent identifier) for your software has become [increasingly popular][datacite-doi-software]. So, how do you obtain a DOI (a type of persistent identifier) to refer to your software releases? And what are the benefits; this could be because you or another user of the code would like to refer to it in a publication or you would like a global repository independent way of referring to it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obtaining a DOI (a type of persistent identifier) for your software has become [increasingly popular][datacite-doi-software] to indicate others how to cite your software (either in a publication or as an independent way of referring to your software versions). In this document we describe how to obtain a DOI to refer to your software releases.
```

### Considerations 
* You use [GitHub][github] as your software repository
* You make software releases (e.g. using [semantic versioning][semantic-versioning])
* You would like a DOI for your software releases
* You use or are happy to make an account on the [Zenodo][zenodo] archive 

### Solutions 

* Link your GitHub repository to Zenodo
	* Go to Zenodo.
	* If you don’t have an account, make an account.
	* Navigate to your [Zenodo my account page](https://zenodo.org/account/settings/profile)
	* Click on the GitHub option, Click on Connect
	* Authorise Zenodo to access your GitHub account
	* Choose which repository you would like to create a DOI for under the repositories sections
		* You may need to scroll down to find the repository if you have access to many repositories

* Create a GitHub release for the repository you have enabled
	* Go to your repository

> 	* Click on releases and then on Draft a new release

Reviewer: Maybe here link to "how to create a code release" task?

Reviewer: It covers how to do it and the versioning used

	* Remember to use a version number (semantic versioning is the common standard but there are other schemes such as [CalVer][calver] which is date based)
	
* Zenodo will automatically archive this release:
	* Once your GitHub repository is linked to Zenodo, any new release you publish on GitHub will be archived by Zenodo
	* Zenodo will automatically issue a DOI for your release

* Get the DOI:

> 	* After the GitHub release, go to Zenodo, where you will see your repository archived with a DOI assigned to it

Reviewer: We should state how to get the badge. 
In "details", click on the badge:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/616d5f3d-e723-4065-9dc3-a4faeeae8c0c)
Then copy the markdown code in your readme. It should show as follows:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f8e366f-9a11-40d7-a75b-11ef9fa50336)
